# Pathfinder
A* search using Qt Model View
=> Goal here is implementing the functionality in limited time, so proper design is not in place for making it scalable & also not optimized for data. However design for scalable implementation is included as a Design image in the repo.

**Environment**:
	Open Source Qt 6.5 on Mac (MacOS 12.7.6)
	Riskylab.com tilemap json files (2 files are included in the repo)

**Content**:
- Qt Project files including CMakeLists.txt (You will need to load this using Qt Creator & build the project first to run)
- 2 Riskylab json files for test
- App screenshot
- Software Design image (Current & future proposal)

**Description**:
System takes input from Riskylab JSON export file as an input. Input file contains grid layout details along with the viewport & canvas setup. File will have 4 types of nodes => -1 : walkable, 3 : not walkable, 0 : starting point & 8 : goal. This implementation takes that as the input, finds traversing path from start to goal nodes & displays the same on UI grid.

Final path is displayed with 11 as starting point (displayed in green), 12 as path (displayed in dark green), 13 as goal (displayed in Blue). Red cells are shown for non-walkable (barrier) cell in the grid.

**Visualization**:
Launching the app - we see empty area on right (for grid display) & select file button on left pane.
Select file will open file select dialog for user to select JSON inout data file generated from Riskylab Tilemap
Alternatively random data can be generated by clicking Random Test button.

**Assumptions & corrections**:
JSON file:
 - cell data for the first data tag in the file is used as data source (I have noticed multiple data instances in some cases)
 - grid layout data that comes within a file is not correct, so grid is generated based of actual data for cells
 - In few generated files from the Riskylab Tilemap, it is observed that data does not always form rectangle, so padding is added. During this rectangle shape is calculated that is close to square shape
 - Data is not always valid, so cleansing of the data is performed & unknown data fields are marked as walkable cell item
 - JSON parser can be made adjustable for dynamic formats (Future development)
   
Algorithm:
- Uses A* search algorithm using Manhattan distance
- Current system looks at the horizontal & vertical cells, future extension can be easily implemented for diagonal search paths
- Checks are in place if start & goal are out of bound, or not specified (from input data)

Design:
- File check for JSON file is not implemented
- Max size is (50x50), however it is being tested up to 200x200, dynamically generated data
- Current implementation is not optimized (design proposal is attached in the image)
- Not scalable
